[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: There's
more than one way to access
the unhealed parts
of the subconscious,
particularly where it becomes
symptomatic in the human body.
One of the subtle
but profound means
of bringing this trauma to the
surface is via tuning forks.
Eileen Day McKusick
states that sound
can vibrate these out of balance
frequencies into attunement.
Which I'm such a fan of
all vibrational therapies.
And this one sometimes doesn't
get quite as much notice
as the others.
But really, none of them
are getting enough exposure
in this world today.
But what's so brilliant is
there are people like you who
understand this who are involved
in now in scientific studies
and such that are starting
to bring this around
for left brained people who
simply refuse to believe
that we are energetic beings.
Right?
>>EILEEN DAY MCKUSICK: Yes.
>>REGINA: And you've spent
a lot of years trying
to prove the usefulness of
this particular modality
in bringing people into
attunement, literally.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Right.
Right.
Tuning people up,
giving people tune-ups.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Tune-ups.
Let's just kind of start at the
beginning and talk about that,
the fact that we're
fundamentally energetic systems
that every cell is simply
sharing information,
but it's happening via
electromagnetic communication.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah.
You know, we've
really been taught
to think of ourselves in
chemical mechanical terms.
So if something goes wrong,
you know, it's drugs or surgery
to treat you at that level.
What I've observed
through my work
is that we're also electric
and magnetic and vibrational.
We're really informational
and energetic beams
at our most fundamental level.
And when you bring in the
additional element of plasma,
the sort of fire, electricity,
light element into our being,
it gives you a
whole new dimension
to work with that's
actually more fundamental.
>>REGINA: I agree with that.
Because if you're looking
at chemical structures
in the body, they
are simply part
of that field, those
informational fields
and frequencies.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Right.
>>REGINA: That's why
they do what they do.
They carry a fundamental
frequency with them
that can balance a
different frequency.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So yeah, so
chemicals are still
just information and frequency.
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
Right, and you know,
Jerry Tennant was saying on your
show that it's really physics,
you know.
That when molecules
switch partnering
and that sort of thing, it's
really electrons moving around.
It's very much physics.
And so the work that
I do with sound,
someone recently called
it physics based medicine.
>>REGINA: That's true.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: And I really
love that terminology,
because that's
really what it is.
We're using the
physics principles
of resonance and entrainment
to find areas in the body
where the vibrations
are out of tune.
And then simply by bringing
a pure tone, a simple tuning
fork, you know, it's an
acoustic frequency generator,
into these areas of
dissonance, the body
hears and recognizes
it's own distortion
and will actually
spontaneously auto tune itself.
You know, we're really
designed to be in harmony.
And we just need the right
inputs to help us to get there.
And so coherent sound is
a beautiful, elegant input
to make that happen.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And I know that you've been
jumping on the new circuit,
the electric universe circuit.
And now there's kind
of a mirror image
of that one by a slightly
different name, I believe,
that's happening in England.
And it's kind of bouncing
between US and England,
with all of the kind of
greats in that field, David
Talbot and some of the
others whom I've interviewed.
And you're showing
up in the scene too.
Because I think it's
important to stress
that there is nothing that
operates independently
outside of the whole.
And we are a reflection of
the whole hermetic axiom,
as above, so below.
Let's talk about a
little bit of our being
a reflection of that cosmology,
that it has its own need
to stay in tune with
itself all the time just
for the planets to be able
to rotate around one another.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, that fractal
expression of patterns.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Well,
you know, when I first
started working
with tuning forks,
I just worked right
over the body.
And 10 years in-- and it was
just a hobby for many years,
I was involved in
the food business--
I started discovering that
there was energy and information
around us.
And made the curious discovery
that about five to six feet
away from the body
there appeared
to be like in a membrane
almost, where there
was greater resistance,
what felt to me like greater
electrical charge.
And as I was exploring
working in the field
and encountering the
phenomenon that I did,
sense of charge, of
resistance, of the tuning
fork acting like
a magnet and being
able to move these areas
of charge and resistance
around, I was so
puzzled, you know.
I was just like, what is this
stuff that I'm encountering?
And what laws of physics
are allowing a tuning fork
to interact with it
and move it around?
And I had just so many questions
that I decided to go to school,
go to college as an adult. I
never went out of high school.
And ended up writing a master's
thesis about my experience,
because I was trying
to understand it.
You know, I've got
a lot of curiosity
and a lot of questions.
And so in my search
to understand
what I was encountering, I came
across the concept of plasma.
And then that led to
electric universe theory.
And I went down the plasma
rabbit hole, you know.
I spent months
reading everything
I possibly could about it.
And I was able to turn it
into an independent study
for my master's thesis.
And then it informed
my master's thesis,
which then informed my book.
But what I discovered
was exactly that.
That as above, so below.
And this idea that
electric universe theory
basically says that
everything is electric.
You know, that this gravity
model is actually incorrect.
And you know, the hot gas
that NASA is always describing
is actually plasma.
Plasma is just gas where
the ions are separated
from electrons and there's a
free-- it conducts electricity.
So the solar wind is a plasma,
Northern Lights are a plasma.
The magnetosphere, you
know, the bubble that
surrounds the Earth, there's
a double layer plasma membrane
there that protects the Earth
from too much solar radiation
and contains our atmosphere.
The sun also has
one, the heliosphere.
The outer boundaries
of the solar system
is this double layer
plasma membrane.
And so fractally, that really
relates to the human idea
that anything that has
an electric current
has a magnetic field and
that these magnetic fields
have boundaries.
And so there was
big ahas that came
from understanding the
electrical nature of our bodies
and how that correlated
to the electrical nature
of the universe.
And in that, there is
a kind of connectivity.
Because in solid,
liquid, and gas,
in that cosmology,
big bang cosmology,
there's just a tremendous amount
of separation and emptiness.
And when I realized that
the same electricity
that was powering the stars
was causing my heart to beat--
>>REGINA: That's just where I
was going to go next, actually.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah.
>>REGINA: It's the same.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: It's
a sense of unification
of like, wow, it's all electric,
in a sea of electromagnetism.
And I'm connected to
all that is in a way
that my left brain went yes.
Because you know, we can
talk about all is one
and you know sort of
metaphysical blah, blah, blah,
but then we have
this cosmology that
says space is an empty
vacuum and everything
is random and disconnected
and chaotic and disconnected.
And so to actually encounter
a cosmology of light
and connection, I never had
to read another self-help book
after that.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Because I'd
been reading self-help books
for years and years
and years and was like,
oh, this is not
solving the problem.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
And when I realized
that it was the
cosmology, you know,
that kind of overarching
unexamined story
that was informing my Cartesian
anxiety and depression,
and being able to see
wow, it's all electric
and it's all
electrically connected.
>>REGINA: Rather than
disconnected pieces
where you throw one thing
here and another thing there
and see if it sticks.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And it's interesting,
because you can even
take it down to an atomic level
and it all looks the same.
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
All looks the same.
>>REGINA: It starts
looking-- depending
on our particular solar
system and a given element,
I think our solar
system is reflected
in I think it's fluorine.
The element of fluorine,
it looks exactly the same.
The number of planets
and the amount
of space between the planets
and distance between them
and the sun is the same
as the atomic structure
of that particular element.
So even if you're taking
it up to an element that's
very heavy, you know,
like uranium or something,
it's still all space.
And this is the
hardest thing, I think,
for almost all humans, even
those who understand it well,
to get their minds around.
That there is
nothing in this room
in your body or mine but space.
There's such an infinitesimal
amount of matter.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And we only try to
affect matter in our lives,
in our healing, in our pleasure
and senses and so forth.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Right.
>>REGINA: And so to be able to
disturb or bring into coherence
the little bit of matter that is
in that whole field in between
through what you do,
for example, that
has to be a really, to you, a
very joyful, beautiful thing.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Oh, yeah.
You know, it's so--
this method that I kind of
discovered, it's so elegant.
It's so efficient.
It's such a joy to work with
people and to teach people.
You know, I've been training
students since 2010,
and they're having the
same kinds of outcomes.
It's wonderful.
Because I think we've spent
so many years bumbling
around with things that
kind of work, you know.
And to have something--
and obviously, this doesn't
work for all things.
But you know, our bodies are
really tonal expressions.
And our DNA is really
music, you know.
And I talk about this--
>>REGINA: Music,
light and color.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah, exactly.
>>REGINA: All frequency based.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: All
frequency based.
This concept that I
call "energenetics,"
which is the tone of
the song of our DNA.
And sound allows us
to rewrite the key
that that music is written in.
You know, babies are
not clean slates.
They come preloaded with all
kinds of tonal programming.
I've seen many people, when
I'm reading their fields,
who've come in with depression,
who come in with anxiety,
you know.
And they try to
approach the treatment
from the level of me and
mine without realizing
that the roots of that tonal
expression in their being
might go back many generations.
>>REGINA: Right.
Yes.
Years ago, I did an
interview with a woman
named Ani Williams.
And she uses voice
toning, but also
kind of voice recognition
spectrum that she
puts people's voices through.
And other people
do this as well.
And then she
reflects back to you
the missing tonal
range in your voice,
which can tell a lot about your
personality, your expression,
your propensity toward
particular, you know,
imbalances in the
body and so forth.
And then in that
case, she simply
has you use your own voice to
begin filling in that spectrum,
right.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Exactly.
And that's basically what
we're doing with tuning forks.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I mean, the tuning fork is a
little purer, stronger, cleaner
than our own voices, depending
on the quality of one's voice.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yes.
>>REGINA: You know,
and the ability
to really sustain a
particular note or kind of
hit that note, so to speak.
But you know, this
brings me to--
before we start going more
into the science of it--
just the notion of
what happens when
you have someone that is
bathed in a full range
of sound frequencies
all the time,
such as people that use their
voice for a living, singers.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Oh, well
you know, it's interesting.
The longest lived
profession is actually
musical conductors, which I
think is really fantastic.
>>REGINA: Fascinating.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Because they're
bathed in coherent sound
all the time.
And this particular
article I read
was speculating that it
was the arm flapping that
was giving them a work out that
was making them live longer.
But you know, you look at
people like Mick Jagger
or I met Herbie Hancock
a few months ago
when I was at the electric
universe conference.
He was playing in
Phoenix that same night.
And you know, I saw on
Wikipedia that he was 78.
And so right before I met him,
I was looking for an old man.
And he walked past me and
I didn't even recognize him
because he looks 50.
He looks 50.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: And so
we were fortunate enough
to get tickets to the
show and backstage passes
because he was really
interested in my work with sound
and you know, what
we know about that.
And it was such a great show.
And he played for two hours.
And then at the end
they did an encore.
And he's got this keytar,
it's a keyboard guitar.
And this guy, who's
78, was bouncing
up and down on the
stage after playing
for two hours like a teenager.
I mean, I was astonished
at his vitality.
And you know, he plays
such wonderful music.
I mean, I think that you
look at these old rockers,
you know, they just keep going.
And it's because music is--
>>REGINA: Against all
odds in some cases.
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
Against all odds.
And even with all
the inputs they've
had, drugs and cigarettes.
>>REGINA: Right,
that's what I mean.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: You know,
it counterbalances that.
And music just brings energy
and aliveness to our bodies.
>>REGINA: And we tend
to be a culture now
that doesn't put a high premium
on singing and dancing anymore.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: No,
we've really lost it.
>>REGINA: You know, the
Western world in general.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah, and you
know, I think it's central--
>>REGINA: And even more
so in the East now too,
as they've become
more indoctrinated
into the Western ways
of living and living
by ticking off the clock
and the list and so forth.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: No
singing and dancing.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: No
And you know, I think to be
human is to sing and dance.
It's just a very important
part of who we are,
whether it's mantra,
whether it's song.
And they've done
plenty of studies
that show that singing in groups
boosts all your immune markers.
I read this wonderful
story, I can't
remember where it was,
about this monastery
where the monks got together
and they chanted like all day.
And this new abbot
said oh no, we're
not going to chant anymore.
And they were all hanging
around like a limp dish rags,
because running that
tone through their system
tones their system.
It brings energy and aliveness
and flow and functionality.
And without that, you know.
And so people, you know, they
sit at desks, they don't sing.
People don't even like
their singing voice.
I mean, if you ask a
room a kindergartners who
likes their singing voice,
they all raise their hand.
And then something
terrible happens
along the way and
people stop singing
and they stop believing
that they can sing.
And they just lose that
potential for aliveness.
>>REGINA: Yeah, they really do.
Let's start talking about
the more technical ends
of the subject
for a bit and then
we'll kind of get back
to mantras and so forth.
But one of the things you
see is in this kind of almost
like tree rings moving
out from the body
of these waves of energy is
you're able to see the trauma.
Let's talk about how trauma
shows up in your work.
Because, as you say, we
come preloaded, for one.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So I mean, I
would say that it probably
has to do with
previous incarnations.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: As well.
>>REGINA: As well.
And it has to do with in utero.
It has to do with
ancestral programming.
It has to do with all that.
So we're not a clean slate,
as you said, from birth.
But then a lot
happens after that.
And so let's talk about
what trauma looks like,
because that's a
lot of your work.
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
It is, absolutely.
So we work with what I call
the biofield anatomy map.
And this is really based on
my own subjective observation
of exploration of the
area around the body.
And the biofield anatomy
map, it took many years
to really come together and
form the sort of complete thing
that you learn about in my book.
But essentially,
what I found, what I
observed was that our memories,
rather than being stored
in our brain, appear to be
stored in the field that
surrounds our body.
You know, the diffuse
weak magnetic field
that is bounded by this
double layer membrane.
And having this double membrane
creates standing waves,
in the same way
that the ionosphere
creates standing waves of the
Schumann resonance or radio
waves, right.
They bounce off of it and
create a standing wave.
And so when you pass an
activated tuning fork
through this field,
the tones that
are being emitted from the fork
intersect these invisible waves
that are in the field.
And you can hear
the tone change.
>>REGINA: OK, that's
what I was going to ask.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah.
And it's very obvious.
It's not some subtle thing that
only sensitive people perceive.
It's if I'm teaching a class
and we have a room of 20 people
and we're working on something,
everybody can hear it.
It's very obvious.
And it's similar to music.
So you know, we know
in music like if you
hear a minor third--
in music, that sort of
is indicative of sadness
and you're like oh,
that sounds sad--
so when you hear these
changes in tone in the forks,
it's not intuition
that's telling you
what it is, it's just your
own senses being like, oh,
that sounds sad.
>>REGINA: It's information.
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
It's information,
and you're just responding to
it the same way you do music.
You know, when they want make
something scary in a movie,
they put in this pulsing
quality kind of music, right.
Think "Jaws."
And actually, when we
feel fear in our body,
it produces a pulsing quality.
And when you get really
scared, that waveform
that has a pulsing quality
will make you shake, right.
And so when we find
areas in the field
where there is a record
of fear, the tuning fork
will produce a pulsing quality.
That's very, very evident.
Or if we find something
that is alarm,
like if somebody
was suddenly rear
ended and their whole system
had an adrenaline rush
and they had
experience of alarm,
you hear this very sharp kind of
high pitch sound that's there.
So as we move through the field,
you have these changing tones.
You know, there's
kind of a dance
between those frequencies.
But there's also areas where we
encounter a sense of resistance
that's very odd.
>>REGINA: What do
you say resistance?
So how does that, how
do you experience that?
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Well,
so you're moving along
with the tuning fork, right.
And all of a sudden it feels
like you can't go any further,
like you get stuck.
>>REGINA: I see.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: You're
like, I'm stuck here.
Because you know,
obviously you can
override that and go through.
We're just working with
the waves in space.
But if you're in that
area, you know, just
being sensitive and perceptive
to what you're encountering,
then we find these things
that I call tangles
where the wave forms
that we produce--
we're very chaotic.
You know, you just
found out your husband's
been having an affair and
he's drained the bank account.
You're about to go through
your dark night of the soul.
>>REGINA: And you're using
all the blood in your body.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah.
And so you start to feel
very chaotic feelings
and resistance.
And so that gets laid
down in the album,
in the track, the
soundtrack of our life.
And so when we encounter
these, you know,
let's say somebody is 60,
and that sort of thing
happened when they were 30, on
the left side of their heart
where sadness, grief,
and loss is stored,
we're going to hit halfway
through their field.
So let me just explain that
the outer edge of the field
is gestation.
Just inside that is birth.
And then you move along
like rings in a tree
up until the present time,
which is close to your body.
And it's very equidistant.
So you know, if somebody is 60
and you find a tangle halfway
through, that's happened
when they were 30.
And so the beautiful
thing about the sound
is the tuning forks
will initially
resonate with that distortion.
They'll be kind of stuck
with that resistance.
But if you keep on introducing
this pure tone into that spot,
the body will sort of
spontaneously detangle itself.
It will organize those
patterns into a more
coherent expression.
And then the energy
that has been
trapped there, the photons or
the plasma, sort of decouples.
And you can take
that energy, and you
can use the tuning
fork like a magnet,
and you can bring it
back into the system.
Drop it in the midline
of body where it gets
restored into flow.
And so what we're really doing
when we comb through the field
and we find these areas
of chaos and stuckness,
is we're liberating
our potential.
Because the more trauma
somebody has had,
the more their essential life
force is stuck in the past.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: This is a way
of going back to birth trauma,
going back to precognitive
under the age of three,
where you know, you can't
remember what happened.
But we've lost little bits
of ourselves, you know.
We've leaked light, we've
shed soul fragments, that's
another way of looking at it.
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: We're
sort of defragmenting
the hard drive that is
us by bringing harmony
to these dissonant areas and
then bringing that energy back
into flow.
And so I hear from
people all the time
that they feel lighter,
that they have more energy.
And people always
report, I went home
and I busted a bunch of clutter.
I, you know, cleaned
closets that I
haven't been able to do before.
>>REGINA: Like
the flow of energy
was restored in their being.
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
Was restored, yeah.
Energy goes up.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Well, it makes perfect sense.
And I've interviewed
other people
who use the sense of
sight, for example,
to be able to look at a
person's aura and the colors
and the distortions
and so forth.
And so from your
point of view, you
can hear what a person's
life sounds like.
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
Yeah, absolutely.
And what's so amazing about it
and one of my favorite things
about this work is
that once we get
the distortion and the
noise out of the signal,
the true signal emerges.
And it's just so beautiful.
You know, when I first
started doing this work
and I started discovering this
underlying harmony in everyone,
this underlying beauty, I had
a lot of cognitive dissonance
around it.
I couldn't understand why I was
having a hard time with what
my senses were showing me.
My senses were showing me
beauty, harmony, greatness,
order, you know, magnificence.
And I really had to struggle
and puzzle over that, you know.
Why am I having a
hard time with this?
And I realized
that even though I
have been raised in a
non-religious home, that I
still had been really programmed
with the idea of original sin
and guilt. And that we're
like guilty sinners,
we've fallen from grace.
>>REGINA: That then made you
feel less than on every level.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Less
than on every level.
And so you know, to discover
that that wasn't true
at all, that we're like
actually magnificent beings,
you know, I kept coming home
to my husband and being like,
that person I worked
on today was great.
Because when that true tone
emerges, it's just beauty.
And he's like, what,
is everyone great?
And I was like yeah, I
think everyone's great.
We're just kind of
buried under noise
and you know, ancestral
burdens and lies, and you know,
so many things.
But so you know, yes, we're
getting into the trauma,
we're healing that.
And then sometimes that
can be uncomfortable
and people can have detox.
But what emerges is
so worth it, you know.
It's that underlying.
And then you know people, I
always reflect back to people
when I hear a beautiful tone.
You know, like this is you.
Listen to how
amazing you sounds.
Listen to how beautiful you are.
And people go yeah, I knew that.
You know, I hear
that and I know that,
but I haven't been able
to let myself feel it,
because I've been so
programmed to feel unworthy.
>>REGINA: Right.
That's the big one for humanity.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Big one.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And so when you're passing
the tuning fork through,
is it fair to say that where
there are kind of distortions
or incoherence in
the field, does it
sound a little more
like minor keys?
Or is that too
blunt a statement.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah, I
think it's hard to say,
because it's so different,
and everybody's different.
And you can really hear all
kinds of sounds, you know.
So you know, the Western musical
scale is too limited, really,
to compare it to--
>>REGINA: That's what I wonder.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: --to the
symphony of the body.
But I really do
see the correlation
between things that
happen in people's
past and the way their body
starts to break down over time.
You know, I'm thinking
of a gentleman
that I worked on
who was in his 70s.
And he had a really bad
pain in his left hip.
And what we
discovered was that he
had had an injury
when he was around 20
that was pretty severe.
And so when we went
and untangled his field
and released the tension
and kind of restored order
into that area, all
his hip pain went away.
But it was from that
incident, you know.
And I find that all the time.
It's like, oh, my
shoulder is going out.
Well, I had a sledding
accident when I was seven.
Or my neck always goes out.
Or you know, it's these
imbalances in the field.
Because magnetic fields,
magnetic currents
guide electric currents.
So our magnetic field is
informing our physical body
all the time.
You know, you go
to a chiropractor
because your bones
are out of whack
and they'll put them back.
But then, you know,
you go back out again.
You know, your bones
or electric, your bones
are piezoelectric, they're
carrying an electric current.
And so you know, if you've got
a really strong tangle over here
in your magnetic
field, it's going
to keep pulling your neck out.
But once you adjust
the magnetic field
and you bring it into order,
then the electric system,
the body will just
stay in order.
>>REGINA: That makes sense.
You know, I'm just kind
of flashing back when you
said this man's hip pain that--
and I don't quite
understand this--
I have kind of a
strange wiring anyway
in that I don't create cortisol.
It's a strange birth defect.
But the way it's
come out is that it
seems that the trauma doesn't
hold like it does usually.
Because I've damaged both hips.
Not broken them,
but smashed them
so badly that the black and
blue bruises lasted for months.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Wow.
>>REGINA: Never got any therapy,
never did anything like that.
Never had any pain
afterward, nothing.
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
You're really lucky.
>>REGINA: On both sides.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: That's amazing.
>>REGINA: But this happens
because I don't live in
my body that closely.
I'll tend to bump
around through life,
but I never-- it doesn't seem
to hold any physical pain.
So what could be happening
with something like that?
I know it's more of an
oddity, but just to look at it
in reverse or something.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah.
I mean, it might have something
to do with the stickiness
of your magnetic field.
You might have more fluidity
because your stress response
is not mitigated by cortisol.
>>REGINA: That's
what I'm asking.
Because I'm going to get
into the adrenal question
in a moment, so I thought
it was good to bring up
kind of like the minus
or negative situation.
Which your body has to run
totally differently if it
doesn't create cortisol.
It's dangerous.
It has its downside.
But it has its upsides.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah, I'd say.
>>REGINA: Because my
husband's always saying,
you bumped into this thing,
there's no lasting pain.
There's nothing
that seems to stick.
So that's not usual.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: No.
>>REGINA: So let's look
at what usually happens
with a cortisol response,
an adrenaline response,
and what's happening
with our adrenal glands
and their interaction
within this field.
Because so many people
have fried adrenals now.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So let's see what
it normally does in a body.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Well
you know, that's
a really good topic as
far as this work goes,
the biofield tuning,
because we work
a lot with people's adrenals.
And I've had to have mine fixed.
I've gone through burnout in
various stages in my life.
I owned a restaurant
when I was in my 20s that
got insanely busy.
I was working 100 hour weeks
on my feet all the time.
>>REGINA: What was it?
Where were you?
>>DAY MCKUSICK: It
was in Connecticut,
a town called
Pomfret, Connecticut.
It's still there.
It's called the
Vanilla Bean Cafe.
I started it when I
was 20 with my family.
We started with 16 seats and
my mom and two of my brothers.
And within 3 and 1/2 years
we had 90 seats inside,
50 seats outside, doubled
the size of the kitchen,
tripled the size
of the dining room.
>>REGINA: That's stress.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: 32 employees.
And I had been working
seven days a week.
It was just nuts.
And I really burned out hard.
And that's what actually
brought me to sound.
Because I took a
leave of absence
and went to massage
therapy school.
Because my back was ruined,
my adrenals were ruined,
I had TMJ.
I had all these
digestive issues.
It was just-- I was a mess.
And I'd been interested in
natural health and wellness
anyway.
So I went and got my massage
therapy certification.
And then started playing with
the tuning forks in my massage
practice.
Again, you know,
just as a hobby.
But it was my own drive
towards recovery, you know,
that has brought me down
this road, my own quest
for understanding
not just health,
but also human
potential, you know.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: So but what
happens when we work 100 hour
weeks, when we're constantly
discharging and not recharging,
is that our adrenal
rhythm becomes
very high and very fast.
And you know, we're just
running on adrenaline.
And it's sucking energy
out of our kidneys
and out of our bones.
And you know, if you
go to a naturopath,
they're going to push a
lot of bottles of things
across the counter at you.
You know, Ashwagandha,
this, that, and the other.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: If you go see
a biofield tuning practitioner,
what we will do is we will lock
phase with your adrenal rhythm
at the outer edge of
your adrenal field, which
extends past your fingertips.
There's a minor
plasma membrane there,
because the adrenals
throw a pretty big field.
Once we hit that
information zone,
we just focus on the adrenals.
And we move in slowly,
letting the adrenal
listen to and hear itself.
And then we get
right over the body
and we just hang out with it.
And what happens is that that
rhythm starts to ratchet down.
And it starts to come into
a more factory settings
kind of expression.
And once your rhythm
is running properly,
then you don't need all of
those pills and supplements
and stuff.
>>REGINA: Will the
adrenal glands then
re-establish themselves
to a healthy output?
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
I remember one of
the first people
that I was developing
this work with.
And when I was evaluating
his rhythms, you know,
his left side sounded so awful.
I was like, usually the right
sounds worse than the left,
because they seem to respond
to different stressors.
The right one is
more social stress
and the left one is
more my organism is
under threat kind of stress.
And so you know, in our
culture, most people
it's office politics, it's
family stress, it's money
stress, it's more right adrenal.
Left adrenal is more
like battle zones
and you know, physical abuse
and that sort of thing.
And so I was like wow, if you're
left adrenal sounds this bad,
I can't even imagine what you're
right adrenal sounds like.
And I came around and I listened
to it, and there was no signal.
It was like, it
felt like pudding.
It had just gone
completely offline.
And I was able to resurrect it.
I was able to give it CPR with
sound and get it back online.
And this particular
person, he was almost dead.
I mean, he had so much
stress in his life
and was really at
the end of his rope.
And after five or six sessions,
he completely changed.
He sold his business,
he sold his house.
He created a
lifestyle for himself
that was life supporting
instead of life sapping.
But he also had generations
of that pattern in his field.
His father was a Native
American alcoholic
who'd been in the
military, who beat him.
And his father had been
the same and his father
had been the same.
So you're looking at
multiple generations
of just these shattered
fields and completely
stressed out adrenals.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: You know, never
mind the morphic field of what
all the Native Americans
had been through,
which also informs people.
>>REGINA: Oh, absolutely.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Let's look at
it now from the glands
don't operate solo either.
Then we have the other master
glands working with them.
We have the pituitary,
for example,
a kind of a magical,
master gland that is also
responsible for overseeing
some of the function
of the adrenals, right.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So how
do the tuning forks
work with these
amazing master glands?
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Well, the
same with the thyroid, right.
That's a big part of
people's issues today.
You know, we do a lot of
work in biofield tuning
with the thyroid.
>>REGINA: I would guess.
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
And so much of that
has to do with
speaking our truth.
>>REGINA: Well, and we're
going to get to that too, yeah.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: And so, you
know, every system in your body
has its right rhythm.
And you're really just a
collection of instrumentalists,
right.
You're an inner orchestra.
And everybody's got
the right sheet music
and is playing in
time, you know,
or things are kind
of a chaotic mess.
So basically we're
either making music
or we're making noise, you
know, in our own inner symphony.
And it's really just a
matter of everything having
its right rhythm and flow.
>>REGINA: Right.
Well so, you were going to
get to that a moment ago,
and that is the
notion of expression.
So in the thyroid, you're also
talking about the fifth chakra,
the chakra having to
do with expression
and verbalizing our truth.
And we tend to hold
back our truth.
So let's look at how the
emotions and behavior are
feeding in with these systems.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah,
it's really huge.
I say that the throat chakra
is probably the most important
chakra that I work on.
Because it's by our word
that we create our life.
And if we're not
speaking our truth,
we're creating a life that isn't
in alignment with who we are.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: And so
I think in our culture,
you know, we've been told
to not speak our truth,
to not express our emotions.
And so you know, what
I've seen, for example,
in people who have
chronic fatigue,
this is just a pattern
that I've observed,
is that they have a
big build up of energy
on the left side
of their throat.
Because they don't
advocate for themselves,
they don't speak
their truth, they
don't express their emotions.
You know, they tend to say
what other people want to hear.
Or when they do try to express
themselves, they're not heard.
You know, they have
a belief that nobody
cares what I have
to say or it doesn't
matter if I express my needs.
>>REGINA: Or perhaps they don't
ask for help when they need it.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Or they
don't ask for help.
You know, women especially
have been really conditioned
to put everybody ahead of them.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: And if you
take that advice hook, line,
and sinker, you're going
to get chronic fatigue.
You're going to
get fibromyalgia.
You're going to get
Epstein-Barr, you know.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: And getting to
a place where we are actually
able to speak truth, you
know, this is my truth.
If we're upset about something
to express it without charge.
To approach any kind of issue
that it's not confrontation
that we can--
I believe in win-win, that I
can use respect and kindness
and diplomacy to communicate
to you how I feel
and what my truth is.
And we can have a
win-win encounter.
But a lot of people do
what I call stuff and blow.
Where they suppress and
they suppress and they
suppress till they
can't hold it anymore.
And then they overreact
to a particular situation
where they discharge a
whole lot on somebody
inappropriately and
get push back from it.
And then they go oh, I
don't like confrontation.
And then they go back
into stuffing and blowing.
And meanwhile,
their whole center
of their throat chakra
and their thyroid
is not being stimulated.
Because they're not
coming through from here.
>>REGINA: So do you think
that the almost epidemic
levels of thyroid
problems now have
as much to do with
our own inability
to express than anything,
quote, chemical?
>>DAY MCKUSICK: I do.
I really do.
I think that--
I think it's very hard to
commit to speaking truth.
I think that again,
that self-worth issue
gets in the way of that.
It's very hard to
know how to express
our emotions appropriately.
We're not given models
of appropriate emotional
management.
You know, men are
allowed to get angry.
Women are allowed to get
sad, and that's really it.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: And so you
know, when a woman gets angry,
men try to shut
her down, you know.
Instead of what my
husband has learned
to do over the years is whenever
I have an emotional experience,
he will listen to it.
He will validate it.
He won't try to fix me.
He won't shut down.
And he'll allow me
to work through it
and we digest it together.
You know, that's a functional
way of approaching emotions.
Took a long time to learn it.
But you know, we have very
dysfunctional approaches
to managing our emotions.
>>REGINA: And not only that,
take the reverse of it,
men becoming sad and
women freaking out
because the guy is losing it.
You know, he's losing
his stuff, you know.
And that whatever strength
she thought he had she thinks
is dissipating.
And so women are as guilty as
men in terms of this projection
onto the other, oftentimes.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So yeah, that's interesting
about the thyroid.
I mean, because most people
I know after they hit 45
or so, it's like
women in particular,
seem to have all
these thyroid issues.
But again, as you
said, it's often
women who are stuffing
that truth down.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Exactly.
And they're resisting everything
about who they are, you know,
their own natural inclinations,
their own desires.
We've become very
programmed into we
have to make
everyone else happy,
you know, we have to
do the right thing,
we have to do what we're told.
And I think that
getting to a place where
you do what you feel like and
you speak your truth, you know,
you've got to be
kind of a rebel--
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's true.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: --to like that.
>>REGINA: To really take
one some sovereignty there.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah, exactly.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And that's breaking
many generations.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Many, many
generations of patterns
that we've inherited.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Absolutely.
And those inform us so
much more than we realize.
They really do, you know.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: We
look at dog breeding
and we can see temperament and
body types and all that, but we
don't necessarily recognize that
we're the same way, you know,
that we're bred with
a certain temperament,
with a certain body type.
That the genetic structure
and those temperaments
get passed along.
>>REGINA: So have
you seen once people
have gone through this tuning
process people with thyroid
problems, for example, and who
have taken it upon themselves
to start expressing
themselves, does the thyroid
start straightening
itself back out?
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
It does, it does.
And you know, I've seen people
have to cut back thyroid meds.
I've seen people go
off thyroid meds.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
Well, since we're on
the subject of chakras,
why not go through
a couple others.
What about heart disease, broken
heartedness, heavy heartedness?
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah.
Well, and that's all
tonal as well, you know.
For example, when
people have depression,
when you get into this
left side of the heart,
the tuning fork will emit
an undertone kind of whoa.
Makes me think of Eeyore, gray.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: And
it will be almost
like there's a low
pressure system
of undigested, unexpressed
energy just sitting
there, kind of wet,
heavy quality that has
this particular tonal quality.
And so, you know,
with the tuning,
we hang out where that tone is.
The body recognizes it, kind of
lifts itself up, brings itself
into a more harmony.
And then when we
center that energy,
then it starts to
flow the way that it's
meant, to which is
to actually have
the experience of
open heartedness,
being able to really love,
even if it's a sunset or a dog,
you know, those are easy.
>>REGINA: Just to feel--
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Just to feel.
>>REGINA: --that
expression again.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah.
I remember working on somebody
when I came to his heart,
and I just felt like
his heart was hard.
Like you know, there
was this stiffness.
You heart is supposed
to be squishy, you know,
and it was like--
and he had hardened arteries.
But what I found was there
was a very specific place
in his timeline where that
started, where he got divorced
and he became estranged
from his children
and all of those
relationships went south.
And so when we got
in there and we
started changing that
tonal expression,
and softening it, and pulling
out those strong tones,
his heart started to act better.
And he ended up healing those
relationships, which was
such a beautiful thing to see.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that is.
That's really a lovely story.
Let's go, let's continue on
down through the chakras then.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Sure.
So your solar plexus is this
is our power center, our will
center, you know, where we
set goals and achieve them
or where we get to yes.
Kind of how we interact
with the world.
If people are-- for
example, I had a client
who was an Iron Man triathlete
and a CEO of a large company.
And he had very strong
solar plexus energy.
You know, he's
very, very driven.
I worked with somebody
who had chronic heartburn.
And she had a mate who is
always imposing his will on her.
He was always doing
this energetically
to her, which was then sending
this sort of reflux up.
And so when we strengthen
this particular area,
it's strengthens our will.
And she started to
notice that every time he
did that, she'd have reflux.
And so she started to learn
how to push back, right.
Our parents' energy also really
informs the solar plexus.
I've discovered these
fixed plasma structures
in the field that are like this.
And this one holds
the energy of mother
and this one holds
the energy of father.
So I can stick a
fork in that zone,
I can tell you all about the
character of your mother.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I read that
in the book, the temperament
of your parents.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah, exactly,
their vibrational profile.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: And
so sometimes I'll
be coming in, I'll
get stuck on mom.
And I'll have to work
on mom for a while
before I can come and
work with my client.
And you know, we
hear things that
happen that the parents change.
That the work actually goes
upstream and downstream.
Because DNA is an
unbroken resonant chain,
you know, from the beginning
of life, really, you know.
And so everything
sort of operates
in this resonance sort of way.
So when we switch the tone of
it in this particular zone,
it's going to resonantly go
upstream and also downstream.
It's just fascinating.
>>REGINA: Fascinating.
Well, yeah.
Let's continue downstream
in the chakras, OK.
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
So but I just want
to say one more
thing about this.
Is that if we have a
lot of energy that's
tied up in our parents, if dad
is an alcoholic or mom is crazy
or whatever that was, you
know, and we didn't really
get the support that
we needed from them,
you can end up with what
I call 80% syndrome.
Where you just don't
have the gumption
to follow through and
complete tasks, right.
We all know people who have--
I mean, how many friends who
are carpenters and there's
no trim on the windows.
Or you know, people who have
motorcycle projects in a garage
that they never finished.
You know, for me, it showed
up with I'd wash the laundry,
dry the laundry,
fold the laundry,
leave it on top of the
bureau and not put away.
>>REGINA: Right, and not
put it in the drawers.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: You
know, that sort of thing.
It's like or not close
cupboard doors all the way.
>>REGINA: So classic
procrastination?
>>DAY MCKUSICK: It's
just-- it's a lack of flow
through the solar plexus.
>>REGINA: A lack
of will, really.
It breaks our own will.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Because it's
stuck in our field, you know.
If you had so much tension
because your father is
an alcoholic and he was always
raging through the house
and you're holding your
breath or cringing,
you know, you got
all this life force
that's stuck in your
field on the right side
of your solar plexus.
It's not flowing
through your center.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: You know, you
just don't have the energy
and it's not your fault.
It's just not there.
But we can fix it.
>>REGINA: You can tune it.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah.
I always put the laundry
in the drawer now.
The second chakra has to do
with sexuality, with creativity,
with self-worth.
And you know, this
is the chakra that's
the messiest on everybody.
When I first started
doing this work,
I found that people's energy was
just spread like peanut butter
across this part of the field
instead of being focused.
And in my classes,
you know, I ask
my students, who feels
comfortable receiving pleasure,
receiving money,
receiving personal power?
And you know, what percentage of
hands do you think I see go up?
>>REGINA: A small percentage.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: It's
a small percentage.
Men are more better
at it than women.
But most women don't
feel comfortable
receiving or expressing
personal power, you know.
And so the health
of our second chakra
has a lot to do with do we
allow ourselves pleasure,
do we allow
ourselves creativity.
You know, do we feel good
about providing services
to the world that enable us
to have sufficient cash flow,
you know.
What is our overall
self-worth like?
And most people's
energy is tied up
in what I find on the right
side is guilt and shame,
so much, so much.
>>REGINA: Well, it makes sense.
That goes back to the very
beginning of this conversation.
It's a chronic condition
of being human.
And every system reinforces
our unworthiness.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: It does.
And it's such a lie.
>>REGINA: It is a lie.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: It's such
a huge lie, you know.
Really at the kernel of
almost every dysfunction
I've encountered on anybody,
it's some kind of story
around not being good enough.
Because if you're good enough,
you go into a state of flow,
you know.
I am that, you know.
Everything is the
universe, it's all the one.
And I am that and
I'm mostly space.
And so if I'm in a
harmonic relationship
with my environment,
everything in me flows.
But if I believe I'm
not worthy in some way,
I'm going to throw
up resistance and I'm
going to block that flow.
And it's that arresting of
flow that creates disease.
So then on the other
side of the second chakra
we find frustration
and disappointment.
And you know, most
people are chronically
frustrated about
whatever, you know.
>>REGINA: And disappointed.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: And
disappointed over unmet needs,
you know, that sort of thing.
I found that this very
interesting pattern
in baby boomers who were bottle
fed on a schedule instead
of breastfed on demand.
And there's
tremendous distortion
in the second chakra because
of intense frustration
over unmet needs,
you know, babies
that are left to cry it
out between feedings.
>>REGINA: Dr. Spock's
theories, yeah.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah.
And don't get that
skin to skin contact
and don't get the
nutrition of breast milk.
And so what I see, you
know, in baby boomers,
is chronic frustration over
unmet needs, many digestive
issues, the inability
to really connect
and bond well with
others, you know,
and feeling a sense of satiety,
of satisfaction, of intimacy.
You know, there's a lot of--
and it all goes from birth.
And sugar addiction
or wine addiction
because they were fed.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that
makes total sense.
That was the age where
convenience became the mantra.
TV dinners and like I said, Dr.
Spock and his views on raising
children was very sterile.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Very sterile.
>>REGINA: And so
now you're seeing--
where before that
there wasn't that.
It was the extended family,
and you had your breast milk,
and you know,
grandpa and grandma
were probably around too.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And then now
where the younger mothers
are understanding the
absolute necessity
of that kind of bonding.
But that whole generation--
>>DAY MCKUSICK: They didn't.
>>REGINA: --was really
shoved aside, in that sense.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah.
And there was a lot of
PTSD after World War II.
You know, in the
40s and the 50s,
everyone was
drinking and smoking
and really sort of emotionally
and energetically disconnected.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about
this, because you have boomers
watching this show
that are saying wow,
I've never heard
it put that way.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: I'll tell you--
>>REGINA: And they know
that among their friends
and their sisters and their
brothers, it's the same.
So before we move on to
a couple of other topics,
what would you say are some
of the best self-healing ways
to introduce tone or sound
into their lives, our lives,
as boomers, you know, to start
correcting these frequencies?
Not everyone can find someone
who tunes for a living.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Well, you
know, all of our practitioners
are trained to do
work at a distance.
So even if you don't
live near anybody,
you can find a practitioner
who can do work at a distance.
And I've created a
number of recordings
as well that people
can listen to.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: But
I think, you know,
what I've come to see in
observing this pattern is
it's really easy to see
why the baby boomers drove
the self-help movement.
>>REGINA: Yeah, they needed it.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: And how
the question is wrong.
It's not about what's
wrong with you.
You know, you're
not bad or wrong.
You had a horrible birth.
Your mom was knocked out.
You were pulled out
with forceps, likely,
after being heavily drugged.
You know, you were
poked with vaccines.
You were fed muck from a bottle.
>>REGINA: From a young
age, very early age.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: And introduced
into a very sterile,
emotionally barren
kind of environment.
There's nothing wrong with you.
Your inputs were not good.
And it's not your fault.
It's not your fault.
You know, and I think people are
really relieved to hear that.
>>REGINA: Oh, absolutely.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: They're
like, oh, it's not my fault.
You know, I'm not bad.
And then when you go kind of
down the standard self-help
stuff about change your
thinking, change your life,
it's insufficient to really
deprogram that early stuff.
>>REGINA: I agree.
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
You know, age three
and under, the birth
trauma, those early inputs,
those early beliefs
that your formed.
>>REGINA: Crying it out.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Crying it out.
You know, and I see
this all the time.
The right side of the throat
has to do with speaking and not
being heard.
And those babies that
were left to cry it out
formed beliefs that what they
had to say wasn't important
or you know, it doesn't
matter what I say or do,
my needs are not
going to get met.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Right.
And so then you carry
that belief with you
and you experience
life through that.
You talk with a tone that
supports that belief.
So that when I hear you
in that tone, you know,
that's subtly saying it
doesn't matter what I say,
I'm just going to override you.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: You, know I'm
going to respond to that tone.
>>REGINA: Right.
Oh, that's absolutely
fascinating.
You know, and I'm sure a lot of
people who just heard that are
thinking I need to fix that.
I need to do what I can.
It's never too late to
adjust your frequency.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: It's never
too late, never to late.
>>REGINA: I mean,
think that's the part,
because it starts turning
into a chronic disease.
The longer we live, these
things become more disharmonic
in the body as well.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: They do, yeah.
It's like a car.
You know, if a noise
starts, it just
gets bigger and bigger and
bigger until you correct it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And let's move on
from that area and go
to the notion of
being in resonance,
again, the above, below
thing, going into resonance
with the earth itself,
the Schumann waves,
and the standing waves
there are interfacing
with nature, what that does
for us, how that helps tune us.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Oh, absolutely.
You know, there are so
many different frequencies
flying around out there,
right, cell phones and Wi-Fi.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: There's
a tremendous amount
of information in the
airwaves around us.
And it makes it
hard for us to be
informed by the fundamental
frequencies of the planet.
So the Schumann resonance is
a sort of background radiation
that is happening in
the ionospheric cavity
of the Earth.
And it's generated by all
the electrical activity
that's happening on the planet.
So all of the thunder,
all of the lightning, all
of the electrical discharge
that's taking place
creates a sort of fundamental
tone that's variable,
but in the range of
around 7.83 Hertz.
That's sort of the mean
that they've established.
And then there are
higher harmonics of that.
Anytime you have
a fundamental tone
that's an acoustic
frequency, you're
going to get multiples,
so 7.83 times 2,
times 3, times 4, and so on.
And all of life formed with
this sort of pulse going on.
Our brain waves are
also in that range.
That is sort of a meditative
state in brainwave frequency.
>>REGINA: Alpha.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah, the
alpha/theta cusp, exactly.
And so when we are in nature, we
are exposed to that frequency.
And we become entrained to it.
It relaxes us.
It takes us out of that
beta, you know, busy mind.
Which is often just
nonsense, you know.
What I've observed
in most people
is that they spend a
lot of time and energy
indulging their inner critic
and beating themselves up.
And that inner division of sort
of self versus self, I think,
underpins a lot of autoimmune
diseases that people have,
because they become
inwardly divided.
But when we're able
to be in nature
and we're able to settle down
into that reflective, you know,
harmony, we go into
harmony with nature.
And nature is not frantic.
It's not nuts.
>>REGINA: A lot of the times
after a nice hike or so--
>>DAY MCKUSICK: You feel better.
>>REGINA: Yeah, but you
also might feel sleepy
and say, oh, I need a nap.
Because all of the
monkey brain activity
has essentially
ceased by that time.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: That's right.
>>REGINA: And so
especially if you
haven't been doing a lot of
that and you're out of touch
with nature, it can almost
seem like, oh god, it's
so fatiguing.
No, it's not fatiguing.
It's relaxing and calming.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: That's right,
>>REGINA: And we
don't understand
what that means anymore.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: That's true.
And people are just so jacked up
and amped up and stressed out,
and you know, not able
to receive and entrain
to those frequencies.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
One of the things
that I've been doing
for a few years
now that has completely
changed my life,
and I was really stunned
by how much it affected me,
was the practice of
earthing or grounding.
Getting rid of the rubber soles.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: And getting
out in bare feet or I
bought a bunch of
leather soled moccasins.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: And I wear
them most of the time.
And what I discovered from
doing that is that it brings us
into electromagnetic equilibrium
with our environment.
Just like when you
go to the beach
and you're walking
on sand and you're
exposed to all those ions,
free ions, you become relaxed,
you become more content.
Because the rubber soles
stop us from grounding.
And you know, it's
our natural tendency
to discharge into
the earth and to also
receive energy from the earth.
It's a flow going
down and coming up.
And if you're wearing rubber
soled shoes or insulators,
that doesn't happen.
And so people end
up accumulating
a lot of electrostatic
energy, which turns
into inflammation in the body.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
And then you can tune.
But you could tune
it out, right?
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Well, I can.
>>REGINA: But still, why
gather it to begin with?
Why allow these
disturbances to happen?
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Exactly.
>>REGINA: OK, that
takes us to the subject
of the magnetic field
of the Earth itself.
And as you said, it's
stated in the book.
And this was Gregg
Braden's early work.
It's what brought him
to people's attention
was this notion
of the dissipation
of the magnetic field
around the Earth
over the last few
thousand words.
In your book you
say, it's occurred up
to really the area
of 80% to 90% by now.
Our brain functions on that
resonant magnetic frequency.
What is happening to us with
this dissipation in this field?
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
This is very huge.
And I think it's important--
>>REGINA: It's huge and no
one talks about it anymore
>>DAY MCKUSICK: --that
people understand it.
So a woman researcher did
these experiments in a room
called a mu, M-U
room, where they
were able to take out all
electromagnetic ambient
energies.
And so basically, there was
no magnetic field at all.
And so people in
this environment
started just going to pieces.
They were just
falling apart, you
know, for no apparent reason.
>>REGINA: I remember
reading those studies, yeah.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah, yeah.
And then when they restored
it, they were fine again.
And I think part of
what we're seeing,
they've seen in
geological records
this decrease in the magnetic
field over the last 4,000
years.
And we've had
technology to measure it
for about the last 125.
And it's just going down
and down and down and down.
Maybe in advance
of a pole shift.
>>REGINA: Well, that's what a
Gregg Braden's original work
was 25 years ago.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah,
although it does
seem to be accelerating.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: You
know, since he started
going into that research.
And I think that's part of
why everybody kind of feels
like they're falling
apart, you know.
I mean, I've been reading
thing after thing about brawls
breaking out on airlines
and cruise ships
and you know, people
just loosing it.
>>REGINA: In England last
week they put Nutella--
no, in France-- put
Nutella on deep discount
at this particular
supermarket chain.
People were literally fighting
in the aisles over Nutella.
Loading up their carts
like it's doomsday scenario
and they're not going
to get enough Nutella.
But this, you know, same
with the Chuck E. Cheese,
you know the Chuck E.
Cheese video about parents
brawling at Chuck E. Cheese.
We are losing it.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: We're losing it.
>>REGINA: And I remember,
my primary intuitive source
for a lot of information
over the less 30 years
had said to me
about 10 years ago,
this decrease in
the magnetic field
is really going to
have a very noticeably
serious impact on people's
functioning, their brain
functioning.
And they said, first it
comes out as incoherence.
People start behaving
in an incoherent way.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: That's right.
>>REGINA: And they said, by
the time this increases really
to its maximum, there will be
an inability to distinguish
between what's real.
Dream time and
waking time, there'll
be no way to distinguish
between them any longer.
And that this is happening
en masse as a result.
The interesting thing was I said
yikes, what can we do about it?
And they said, that's where it's
good, those technologies that
come out with these
little magnetic devices,
putting them on your
body and so forth, they
said they actually do help.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yes.
I think that the
more coherent we are,
the more we will be able
to withstand this decrease
in the magnetic field.
If you're own magnetic
field is strengthened,
if your own inner
voltage is high,
if your own degree
of inner order
is high, because you're
a generator of that,
so that can help
mitigate the influence
of what's happening
in the outer.
Now what I think will
most likely happen
is that we will see this
magnetic field shift,
and then the field will
come back stronger.
>>REGINA: Right.
It's just this
period of dissipation
and then reestablishment
that we all chose for.
We chose to incarnate
during this crazy time.
And it is truly crazy making.
And again, you can say, it's
almost not people's faults.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Exactly,
>>REGINA: In the
sense that they do not
have the proper magnetic
brain support any longer.
And you see it on the
road all the time.
People are just--
people are losing it.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah.
>>REGINA: You know, we go
out on the road and say,
is this going to be a total kind
of like crazy day on the road?
Is it going to be
an aggressive day?
Because you start seeing
patterns of behavior in people
throughout the day on the roads
and the freeways in particular.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah, and
Friday afternoons are the worst.
>>REGINA: They're the worst.
So we have to be aware.
And then also, I think
it's also hopeful to know
that people who are
doing the science on this
are beginning to create at
least a little devices here
and there.
We're beginning to understand
we can't bombard ourselves
with Wi-Fi and these
kinds of artificial waves.
We can maybe wear a
little magnetic device
on our body that helps draw
that magnetic field back
close in again so our brains
can function a little better.
There are things we can do.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: There are
definitely things we can do.
And I think just knowing
that it's not you.
>>REGINA: Knowing
it's not you, yeah.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: It's a
big relief for people.
>>REGINA: That this
is a problem en masse.
And people will say, are
things getting weirder?
Yes, they're getting weirder.
And they're not going to
get better anytime soon.
Don't think that this is just
a blip on the screen, It's not.
So let's-- we only have
a couple of minutes left.
So let's go ahead and share
with us the best thing
we can do for ourselves.
We've talked about
some, little tick
list we can do to start bringing
the frequencies of sound
back into our life and
self-healing and then move.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Well,
easy ones are mantra.
You know, just toning a mantra.
You know even
going aw, you know,
you're resonating your
thyroid, your you're
energizing your heart,
you're vibrating your bones.
You know, so all
of that is useful.
Singing, you know, sing in
the car, sing in the shower,
sing in groups.
Go to kirtan, go
to join a choir.
All of that really
makes a big difference.
Follow your natural
inclinations.
>>REGINA: Speak your truth.
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
Speak your truth.
Express your emotions
in healthy ways.
I love Jerry
Tennant's description
of electron donors versus
electron stealers, right.
So you know, don't
hang out with people
who are electron stealers.
Because you're going to be
drained at the end of it.
You know, you want
to have relationships
that's a two way street,
where it's give and take.
>>REGINA: Right
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
Really notice, you
know, when are you discharging.
When are you recharging.
You know, I talk about
this really simple exercise
where if you think
about doing something,
does it make you feel aw or
does it make you feel ew?
>>REGINA: Exactly,
it's that simple.
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
It's that simple.
And so if something
feels ew, it's
going to be an electron
stealing experience,
it's going to suck
the life out of you.
Whereas if something
feels aw, that's
going to be an electron donor.
It's going to give you energy.
And the more you choose
aw, the more your life
unfolds as a kind
of aw experience.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And sometimes it can seem
so totally superficial.
And years ago, I was absolutely
fascinated, obsessed with color
and used to do lectures
on color therapy,
because no one was back
then, this is 30 years ago.
And I started noticing what
was happening when women would
become overstressed or whatnot.
They would go shopping,
right, as a release valve.
Which is kind of depressing, you
know, when you think about it.
Going into a mall and
looking through things,
it's depressing on one level.
But I realized what it was.
It was really simple.
You were being exposed to a
lot of different frequencies.
In this case, a lot of color.
There was a lot of
color coming at you.
So to go buy fingernail
polish or clothing
was bringing a
frequency of color
in that was breaking up
kind of the dullness of what
you had just been experiencing.
It wasn't the
buying of things, it
was actually the
looking at things.
Which you can do by going
to museum or anything else.
It was just kind of a
subconscious common way
for women to go in
self-heal was to go shop.
And then you get in debt
and all that or you have--
what do you call
it-- buyer's bulimia,
you take everything back.
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
Yeah, buyer's regret.
>>REGINA: It's again, you
know, this whole notion
of bringing these other
counter frequencies
into our experience.
And so it can feel like
shopping aw, you know,
an uplifting thing.
Even though it's not the
shopping, it's the experience.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Right,
the exposure to tone.
>>REGINA: To tone and color
and light and so forth.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So that's really--
yeah, that's really important.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah.
Yeah, so we can just be mindful
about the tonal inputs you
know that we are experiencing.
Whether it's somebody who's
always going blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah around us or you
know, music, even clothing,
painting your house, you know.
>>REGINA: Exactly,
painting a room a color.
But they can also come
to someone like you,
people that do tone
healing as well,
to get kind of a real
acute bump to get in there
and start straightening
things out so that then you
have the ability to
maintain it better.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Yeah, exactly.
And you know, that's
another thing,
is that a lot of people
who discharge a lot,
they are not very good
at asking for help.
So recognizing that
you do need help,
you do need somebody
to come along and kind
of tidy up your biofield
for you and just
help put you in more order.
And the beautiful thing
about the work with sound
is that it's really
efficient, you know.
I mean I've had many, many
sessions, and it's cumulative.
But even just a few can
be enough of a leg up
to get you going in
the right direction.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Well, on that note, it's been
a fascinating conversation.
I think highly useful.
I love it when
something is useful.
>>DAY MCKUSICK: Me too.
>>REGINA: Thank you, Eileen.
>>DAY MCKUSICK:
Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: The name
of Eileen's book
is "Tuning the Human Biofield."
You can also reach
her on her website
for private sessions
with her and others that
do this at biofieldtuning.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.
[THEME MUSIC]